---
layout: post
title:  2023的几个小Flag
date:   2023-01-02 13:21:50 +0800
categories: daily
---

上一篇写了2022的总结，一如既往，2023，给自己立几个挑战性的目标。还有一些是不得不面对的生活，就不写到目标里面了：

1. 读书 （15 - 50）
2. 长见识 （6个新的城市，写游记）
3. 拿证（驾照，专业考试）
4. 兴趣（画画 6-20幅，滑板）
5. 健康（BMI进入正常范围，跟胖相关的疾病都走开）
6. 写作（发paper 5-10，写文章 50，出图集）

——
今日paper：[REVIEW: Proteasome System of Protein Degradation and Processing][paper]

Abstract: In eukaryotic cells, degradation of most intracellular proteins is realized by proteasomes. The substrates for proteolysis are selected by the fact that the gate to the proteolytic chamber of the proteasome is usually closed, and only proteins carrying a special “label” can get into it. A polyubiquitin chain plays the role of the “label”: degradation affects proteins conjugated with a ubiquitin (Ub) chain that consists at minimum of four molecules. Upon entering the proteasome channel, the polypeptide chain of the protein unfolds and stretches along it, being hydrolyzed to short peptides. Ubiquitin per se does not get into the proteasome, but, after destruction of the “labeled” molecule, it is released and labels another molecule. This process has been named “Ub-dependent protein degradation”. In this review we systematize current data on the Ub–proteasome system, describe in detail proteasome structure, the ubiquitination system, and the classical ATP/Ub-dependent mechanism of protein degradation, as well as try to focus readers’ attention on the existence of alternative mechanisms of proteasomal degradation and processing of proteins. Data on damages of the proteasome system that lead to the development of different diseases are given separately.

[paper]: http://protein.bio.msu.ru/biokhimiya/contents/v74/full/74131411.html
